some of you may be expecting me to point  the finger at the extent to which roger  hellum is leading or misleading people  into terrorism by constantly hinting at  more extreme more violent solutions  risks on a larger scale risks that will  put you in prison and his insistence  that going to prison is the only way  forward for social progress  it's a very different sort of deception  and  self-deception that instead in this  video i would like to point the finger  at  you know i'm one of the most  intellectual people in this country  i wake up thinking i go to sleep  thinking i've been thinking ever since i  was 14  and  everything my intellect says  is that the intellect is now useless  [Music]  i have to know how my brain works  in order to catch it from doing bad  things i've got a scholarship to london  school of economics i'm super bright  right the intellect in the present  moment is basically  our ego it's our desire to maintain  control to bargain  with reality  and  i think the essence of  doing god's will at the present moment  is to let go of that intellect and all  those rationalizations  and all that resentment and  denial  and  confusion  [Music]  and i think  what the christian church is guilty of  and  what religious people are guilty of is  is having the air of piety  but not the reality of it  and i've seen this all through my life  and i have a sense that what god is does  is plays a game with us but we have to  in giving ourselves to god we have to  consider that we're following the devil  rather than god  and we have to take that risk  because if you follow the path of god  then you'll be attacked  as  really following the devil by society  so you'll never really be able to work  it out and  the most difficult thing  is to  is to  accept you'll never know  and hand it over to god  the climate movement in its present  state is a far greater block  to  sorting out the climate crisis than  the denial  and the extreme right  and the reason for that is because  the white liberals of course have all  the words and the books  and  the right arguments  and the sophistication  but they're missing  the only thing that counts which is the  willingness  to enter into material resistance  against radical evil we celebrate this  eucharist  friends  in solidarity  with all of creation  [Music]  this is where the church should be at  this time in history in the history of  humanity  what is the point of the church if we're  not on the streets standing up for god's  creation we offer one another a sign of  peace  [Music]  we do need to be here because  it is an absolute emergency that we've  got ourselves into the bread of life is  broken the cup of salvation is poured  out an essential  and terrifying element of that  blockage  is the insistence on academic uh and  intellectual sophistication  in other words  their sophistication is what creates the  block  radical political change is produced by  entering into dogma  for all my life i've been against dogma  for all the reasons we know  but the only thing i see now  that will save us is entering into a  dogma that is rooted in  knowing what god means boris johnson the  prime minister in the uk everyone's  going to be looking at him so he's going  to be going around you know  shaking hands of kids at school planting  a few trees making these announcements  all this [ __ ]  that's when you want to go  and expose his gross obscene hypocrisy  right  because he's weak in 2022 he's not going  to care about the climate christ he's  moved on right  so that's the moment to strike  okay  and like on that  diagram i showed  then there's the 9 11. then is the 9 11.  then there's the 9 11. then there's  these massive crises  you have to act fast  you know if hundreds of people have died  in  germany because of the floods  you need that small group to go right  we're going to have this big  demonstration now  in 24 hours you're going to make that  fast decision that's why you need a  small group is to react  to these spontaneous moments when the  opposition is weak  or to design something  when  you are going to maximize the  probability in other words strategic  intelligence we're not going next year  we're going now right in the next three  to four years  it's absolutely essential to use your  brains on this right this is not a  [ __ ] campaign  it's the end of the world it means you  have to like  give up all your preconceptions of what  doing a little trendy university  campaign is about that's not the deal  okay  there's millions of people dying as i  speak  life just hasn't got to this country yet  but it will  we're going when they're weak on our  we're we're determining the moment of  resistance  number three is high level  disruptive action  okay  so again this is like totally  foundational  you're not going to be in the ballpark  of  catching that ball going down the road  down the hill  unless you engage in high level  disruptive action  that's an absolute no-brainer at this  point in history we've got three years  to turn around the crisis  in the six month plan  we have to go in there with something  massively transgressive massively  disruptive massively outrageous  if you're not doing that you're not in  the ballpark  because you've got to capture mass  attention  to change history  to change how the society is going to  work this is the complete opposite of  performative protest  right it's about material disruption  it's about material disruption  the test for me  following god at a time of radical evil  [Music]  and the test throughout history has not  been  the words from the sophistication  in the sunday morning discussions  the the essence of following god and  being in the light of god at a time of  radical evil  is whether or not  you  are  in a situation  of material resistance against the  regime there's something very concrete  here about what i'm saying just as  there's something very concrete about  putting co2 into the atmosphere what i'm  trying to say in this talk isn't at all  abstract  what what i'm saying is  the only position place  for a christian at the present moment is  in prison if you go out and disrupt the  government that  is facilitating radical evil  then the result of that will be you go  to prison toughen up because you're  going to have to toughen up i know it's  not politically correct  but i'm not critically correct right i'm  a sociologist i'm 55 years old i've seen  some [ __ ] you've got to toughen up  it's going to be tough  so what have you got to do  what do people do over and over in  history what they do is whatever  is necessary to change the situation  then they said you can't get people  arrested you know people don't like  getting arrested it's unpleasant  and then they said if you get people  arrested it's going to upset people you  know that one right daily mail is going  to get upset so it shouldn't do it and  we said we cannot afford not to take the  risk it became the most powerful climate  movement in 2019 globally according to  some posh thing right  how do we do that by taking risks  right you've got to take risks imagine  the worst risk and times it by 10.  and what that means is something  concrete just as it means in the past  and this is skated over over and over  again  when people talk in abstract ways about  resistance  when you enter into resistance  you will  lose your material security  you will very likely lose your  relationship  you will lose your job your status your  friends  and that's really what it means  some of you may be expecting me to point  the finger at the extent to which roger  hellum is leading or misleading people  into terrorism by constantly hinting at  more extreme more violent solutions  risks on a larger scale risks that will  put you in prison and his insistence  that going to prison is the only way  forward for social progress  it's a very different sort of deception  and  self-deception that instead in this  video i would like to point the finger  at  i once as a child read in a batman comic  book  batman saying to robin  don't do as i do  do as i say  no one had ever said that to me i think  still to this day  in real life no teacher no adult no  parent has ever used that phrase that  anything with me so i partly just  puzzled at it for some time and figuring  out  what it meant  a lot of people  it's not so much that they  look up to the political leaders of our  times they look up to  icons on on social media they look  at them  and they're responding to and imitating  what they do  much more than what it is they  say  to do  roger hallam is telling you  to live a life  of self-sacrifice  suffering and sorrow  in anonymity  in jail  he has collected  millions  of dollars  in donations  he has  wealth  fame  power and respect  on a scale very few of you can imagine  very few of you will ever experience in  your lives during the last  five years who has been more powerful  or more influential roger hallam with  his few millions of dollars i'm not  claiming it's many millions of dollars  i've been completely unable  to find any formal financial accounting  of how many millions of dollars and  that's probably a strategic choice on  their part but if you look around you  can find there was one fundraiser here  for 850 000 pound sterling there was  another donation there that ran up to  300 000 pounds you can find little  breadcrumbs and information here and  there and if you add those together  we're already well over 1 million pound  sterling it's reasonable to say this is  going to be over 2 million dollars but  again with his with his few  millions of dollars  in the last five years who has been  more powerful and more influential  in politics roger hallam  or the mayor  of the town where you live roger hallam  or the governor of your state the  premier of your province how about the  president of laos  how about some of the smaller countries  in the caribbean in africa in southeast  asia he has actually been more powerful  and influential than a great many  elected leaders and i'm sure there are  elected leaders who've looked at him  on the news in the newspapers and have  wondered why their own voice matters so  little and why his voice matters so much  the students who are in the audience  when he is addressing teenagers when he  is addressing university students when  he is trying to recruit and radicalize  people  i don't think they respond to  what he's saying  so much as they respond to what he's  doing and they see a very clear path  towards money  fame  power respect  and of course  sex  and  not necessarily  in that order  i do not trivialize the importance of  roger hallam an extinction rebellion  the history of ecology history of  politics in our time generally  for a period of about two years  they have been tremendously powerful  important and influential and it seems  that that period of two years is now  coming to an end i could be wrong  it's possible they'll turn things around  and they'll become tremendously powerful  and influential again with the next  fight it's possible it seems like  they're a spent match it seems like  they're you know a candle that's going  to go out in the wind  remember uh wayne syong  wayne siong  managed to get a budget of  millions of dollars  per annum and he became a tremendously  powerful tremendously influential person  for how many years  what was it two years was it was it five  how about paul bashir  leader of  anonymous for the voiceless millions of  dollars not that many years maybe for  about two years oh oh yeah and on a much  greater scale  one of  the most influential the most powerful  the most important movements of our time  black lives matter i don't know if you  want to count that as two years five  years 10 or 15 but for just a few years  they had a great many  millions of dollars you can google  around and you can tell me  what they did  with that money good luck  pinning it down good luck figuring it  out and now already  as i say  their star seems to have been snuffed  out of the sky maybe i'm wrong maybe in  the next five years black lives matter  will become tremendously powerful and  important what's going to be more  influential than ever was but it seems  reasonable to say now  in january of 2022 that that's another  example of a short-lived movement  that has come  and gone  but the money  and the fame  will last  a lifetime  people are looking at roger allen people  are looking at the leaders of extinction  rebellion the leaders of black lives  matter the leaders of anonymous for the  voiceless direct action everywhere  they're not listening to what they're  saying  they're looking at what they're doing  and they're thinking me too they're not  thinking  they want to spend their life in jail  they're not buying into roger hallam's  uh profoundly christian model of the  long-suffering self-sacrificing saint no  no no no and i don't even think they're  being radicalized  into terrorism  i think the most profoundly corrupting  most long-lasting influence of these  movements that have come and gone is  that it's going to shape the next  generation of activists to be neither  more nor less  than fame [ __ ]  i've been doing this  for about the same length of time as  wayne seong i've been doing this for  about the same length of time as  as paul beshear you know can look at the  timeline of my youtube channel and when  it was exactly paul beshear was in  chiang mai with durianrider and i  remember i remember the first few  youtube videos on wayne stone's channel  you know direct action everywhere and  obviously i've been doing this longer  than extinction rebellion  i've been involved in ecology and so on  and trying to in my way  lead a movement or create a new movement  right for for more years than  roger hallam has been doing and you can  look at what i've done  and you can say  that it's a failure  i remember getting a voice call from a  vegan activist in uh  in new york city  and he was saying to me so simply and so  humbly and so straightforwardly  that he and a whole group of vegan  activists had lost  faith  in the leadership of publisher really i  want to say they lost patience with it  they knew paul was bad they knew it was  a bad organization but there's money  involved there's one man at the top of  each of these organizations who controls  the bank account who controls the purse  strings who decides who gets paid and  who doesn't and that buys you a whole  lot of silence it buys you a whole lot  of complicity buys you a whole lot of  conformity buys you a whole lot of  people who don't question or  cross-examine what you say even when  it's obviously flagrantly wrong it can  be strategically wrong it can be  counterproductive it can be stupid and  it can also just be downright crazy like  roger hallum lecturing you about his  interpretation of biblical scripture and  talking about god and satan and  self-sacrifice and blind faith and doubt  money  buys you a whole lot of complicity  in  madness  but you know  each of these movements whether you're  talking about paul bashir wayne style  roger hallam or even black lives matter  you know  what they couldn't buy  was anyone's real  intellectual respect  so when the money's gone  and when the opportunity for  self-promotion for fame whoring for  getting your name in the next newspaper  when that's gone and it goes quick  like maybe for two years each each one  of these act each one of these movements  is hot for about two years  there's an opportunity for people to get  in there and engage in self-promotion  freely enduring rider was it about two  years it's about two years  and think about how many moths were  drawn to the flame even if they couldn't  directly make money out of it right that  just that platform just that potential  for  self-promotion leading to money fame  power respect  political leaders like this  they get followers  but in our day and age those followers  are themselves hoping to become  not quite leaders but social media  influencers they're hoping to have  at least the kind of money and fame  that roger hallum demonstrates even when  he's talking about poverty sorrow  suffering and  and going to jail well you know what  the money's gone and the opportunity for  self-promotion is gone  nobody gives a [ __ ]  about what  paul beshear  has to say  nobody has any respect for the  philosophy of  wayne syong  and yeah in the last eight years  although you may say that i've  failed strategically or i've failed  politically you could say that i've  failed  in this way or following this template  to build a movement  but the people  who listened to me and cared about what  i had to say  eight years ago the people who listened  and cared five years ago three years ago  and sometimes three months ago  those people still write into me and let  me know how much i've influenced their  lives for the better  intellectually ethically and emotionally  i have a relationship to my audience  that roger hallum  can't buy